>> Kevin Powell: All right, next up,
we have a lot of things in place now.
So I do think it's a nice time to get
the rest of the HTML on the page so
then we can start going through things and
actually applying a lot of these
styles to everything that we're doing.
And so what I would actually suggest
is you take about five minutes or so
to start writing the HTML for
everything here.
Don't worry so much about bringing
the content in right now,
just look at how you think
you would organize the page.
Think about the semantic elements you
would be using along the way as you're
going through things here.
So looking at the big picture,
if you have time to bring in the content,
that's awesome.
How would you set this up?
Think of the different things you need
along the way and plug all of those
different things in there, if you need
any extra things, you can add those.
I'm gonna go through all of it along
the way in a few minutes to put it all
together and explain a bit of my thought
process and how I like to do it.
But I think it'd be fun
if you do that first, so
we'll give you about five minutes to
go through and just get it in there.
Again, focus on getting
all the elements there and
then if you have time you can start
putting in the content in there as well.
>> Kevin Powell: All right, so
I'm gonna dive into the HTML now.
And one question I often get when I'm
diving into this is mobile first desktop
first.
What do you look at?
And it depends on what I'm doing.
I wouldn't look at the mobile site if
I'm doing the HTML, cuz the complexity
comes with the larger layout and
how things actually have to be organized.
The only time I'll reference
the mobile version is if I just want to
know maybe there's the order could change.
And often you'll see the actual order
it would be in the DOM by looking at
the mobile version.
But when I'm writing my HTML, I always
prefer looking at the larger one, just cuz
I wouldn't know I need three columns if
I was only looking at the mobile design.
So looking at this first, just because
I already came in with a section,
I can add a section right there.
I'm not giving you the class yet,
we'll talk more about naming these,
you might have already gone through and
named them.
So if you did, that's great, I'll talk
more about how I decide on doing those
things when it comes to actually styling
these different sections that we have.
Inside this one at the top,
I see I have an <h2>, after the </h2>,
I have what looks like a paragraph.
And then after that,
I need to have three columns over here.
So I have to decide how I'm gonna do that.
There's obviously
different ways of doing it.
And I'm not exactly sure how I
wanna create my columns yet.
So what I'm gonna do is put a little
comment here to say I need three columns.
And because I know I need three columns,
I'm just going to put a div and
I'll put a class on there later.
So if you already gave that a class name,
keep what you had,
there's no harm in that at all.
You had a plan so
stick with your plan for now.
And for each one of those, we have a div,
I did mention earlier that I'm gonna call
these cards,
I sort of plan that a little bit.
So I will give that the class of card,
which should go inside of there.
For things like this,
I do like creating one then just copy
pasting it cuz I find it faster.
If you're good with Emmett,
you could also build this a little
bit quicker using Emmett shortcut.
But we'll do it the long way,
where at the top I have my image.
Always remember for your images that
you want to come in with an src for
the source.
But if you want it to be valid, you do
need to have the alt on there as well.
We do want to put some
meaningful text in those,
that's sometimes the hardest part in doing
everything that we're doing right now.
Because this is an <h2> this
down here will be an <h3> and
then after my <h3> you can come in
with a paragraph underneath that.
And then I can just take this card, copy
it and there's faster ways if you know
your VS Code shortcuts and
you wanna do this faster that's awesome.
I can come through all of those and
do that.
You'll notice I got self
closing tags on the images,
that's Prettier doing that for me.
You don't have to have those, but
Prettier self closes tags like that.
So that's that section done.
Obviously, I'll bring the content in soon,
but we can do that pretty quickly.
Then down here, we have another section,
and know I need another section,
I'm just doing this based
on the background colors.
But often you see clear demarcations
of different sections as you're
going through a site anyway.
This one needs an <h2>, and we'll talk
about the different coloured text,
if you've already brought it in, used
span, stuff like that, that's fantastic.
We have a paragraph after it,
we have a few decisions we're gonna
have to make a little bit later on.
So in this next section,
I do have an image that's in there,
so I can put an image,
and I do need two columns.
So actually, before I bring that in, I
probably should have done the same thing,
where I say, this is going to be
two columns, and we can have div.
And if you didn't know in VS Code, you can
select something and drag and drop it.
So I want to have my image
inside that first one.
So that's just creating a column.
If you have classes on there,
that's great, but that will be,
actually we're gonna have a few levels
of divs here now that I think about it.
Cuz this outer div here is what's
gonna be creating my columns,
so there'll be flex or grid on there.
And then this will be the column on
the left and then the column on the right,
you have another div and
that div will have the heading 2.
Whoops, will have a paragraph in there and
another paragraph.
And one reason it like just doing
all of this room doing the structure
first before copying and pasting,
the text is, it's just for me easier.
I can focus on one thing
is just the structure, and
then I can worry about the text.
And I don't get lost about where I am or
anything else and
I can focus a little bit more
on what I want to be focused on.
And down here we have, I'm gonna do a link
that will be going nowhere for now.
And I guess we'll give that a class,
a button.
If you use an actual button,
we will switch that over to a link cuz
it's gonna bring us to the other page.
So that would be a class,
just because it does look like a button,
it makes sense to give it that class,
there we go.
And then this next one is
actually exactly the same.
So I can just take that entire section,
paste it.
And then I can move this
down just cuz we're
switching the image to the other side.
And so I can cut that or
if you know, again,
the VS Code shortcuts to move
stuff around, you can do that.
And I can hit save there, and then at
the very bottom I have that footer, so
I'm gonna come outside of the main and
down here do a footer.
And just like at the top of the page,
I had the primary or the site,
I should say, so
I'm gonna do class = site-footer.
I don't think we're gonna have other
footers in this project, but if ever you
did have another footer, cuz footers could
be used in lots of different elements.
They can be used in articles, in sections,
in accents and other things like that.
So having a class on there just to
distinguish the styling of that
part does make sense.
And now we have the fun part of
bringing in all the content,
which is just copying and pasting.
But I'll do this pretty quick, and
I'll talk about some of
the things along the way.
But hopefully everybody's been
learning a bit about mushroom foraging
as they've gone through all of this.
A few things I didn't do right now so
far as I've been bringing
this in is I haven't done anything
in regards to how my lay.
Well, I put the divs for
the two columns and the three columns,
I didn't put any containers or wrappers.
Which is often, actually,
I'll say, a mistake.
Did I do early on in projects?
Even if I had the foresight for it,
I always forget to actually do it, but
it's something that I wanna talk
a little bit about in a future lesson.
So I left them out on purpose,
if you had containers or wrappers,
please do leave them in there,
cuz we will be using them.
There's other ways of approaching
things now, with grid as well, but
I'm just gonna stick with the nice,
simple, basic way of doing it.
With this text here, I'm gonna grab it and
you don't always have to see these things.
Sometimes when you're coming
through to style them after,
you can figure these out.
But right away when I bring that in there,
I'm just gonna add a <span> right there,
just so
I don't forget that I actually need it.
Even though it'd be easy enough to we can
bring that in if you know what class you
want on there.
If you think it needs a class, so
you're going to use a descendant selector.
These are the types of things to be
thinking about while you're bringing this
in, but I know I need to
change the color of the text.
So I know I wanna throw a span on there.
It didn't do that at the top of the page,
but
that'd be something that we can
bring in and do a little bit later.
Same thing with class names.
I'm doing it on purpose in this order,
without any real classes and
just focusing on the structure.
But if you already had, pre-plants and
class names and stuff like that at this
stage, if you're putting them in there, it
does make your life a little bit easier.
Cuz then when you start getting more CSS
on your page, it's going to look good
right out of the box, cuz your styles
are already being applied to it.
This one, I'm just gonna write it myself,
reference guide.
We're gonna talk about these
links in just a second as well,
cuz there's a problem with them.
It's not a big problem but it's
an important problem to talk about, and
something that people
aren't always aware of.
This one only has one paragraph,
and that one is Learn More.
Capital M makes my life easier and
then there's the footer at the bottom.
I'm gonna talk about the images cuz I do
want to talk about alt text a little bit.
We'll do a paragraph and a link here.
If ever you have a website,
personal website or anything else,
when you have an a href down here,
you can do the mailto.
We're gonna do it this way, mailto: and
just paste in the email address.
And it means if someone clicks on it,
it will send them an email as long
as their systems configured for it.
Just know that bots well scrape those.
So if you put it there, you might
start getting some spam in your inbox.
And there's ways using
JavaScript to insert it after or
to obfuscate it a little bit for
JavaScript purposes.
Or using JavaScript to do that to prevent
the bots from getting it happy foraging.
Cool, for the images,
I said we'd talk about it.
So when you're doing your images, please,
please, please always come
in with meaningful alt text.
So I did try to name the images
in a way that would be, so
that's like outdoor I think.
First I did do webp,
webp is widely supported,
you can use webp images wherever you want,
there's no problem.
But do try and
come in with somewhat meaningful alt text.
Alt text serves a few purposes.
If the image doesn't load for
some reason, then at least they'll have
that text explaining what
the image they should be seeing.
It's also for assistive technology, is not
everybody's going to see those pictures
and it reads the context
of the picture to them.
So this could just be "A tightly grouped".
This is always fun coming
up with this actually.
And I will say,
I'm not a huge fan of AI for some stuff.
They can write decent alt text but do
verify cuz they sometimes don't know what
they're actually looking at, so
don't copy paste it without reading it.
Tightly grouped brown mushrooms
growing up the base of a,
or growing up a mossy tree trunk,
something like that.
Something that gives
a little bit of meaning and
can describe the picture appropriately.
For people, goes a really long way, and
it doesn't take that long to write.
I've seen even there's a really good
blog post I don't have a link to it,
I just thought of it now.
But about how playing D&D
can make you write better,
better alt text, because you get
better at describing things.
And so just, I'm gonna do them
pretty short for now, just so
we don't spend too much time, so
just put "Wild mushrooms on a table".
But the more descriptive your alt text is,
it's always going to be better.
You'll also notice, I'm doing the forward
slash here at the beginning of my source,
you don't need to include it,
it's still gonna work in this environment.
Some builds require you to have that.
If you're using and
doing other things, a lot of the time,
you'll be going to the root cuz when
you have that build step in there,
it's a little bit different
than what we're doing today.
This will work here, but if you omit
it and you just say assets like that,
it's also going to work.
So whichever you prefer for
today's is completely fine.
/culinary,
>> Kevin Powell: And
we'll just do "A plate of
food with mushrooms on top".
Just so again, we're going kind of fast
through this and we only got two more.
So it's not too bad.
This is "/assets/get-to-know" and
"A man on his hands and knees harvesting
a wild mushroom in the forest".
And this last one down here two columns
"/asset/" and connect,
maybe nature, there it is.
"A small white mushroom growing
on a mossy forest floor", okay.
Something like that, there we go.
So as far as everything,
we should be able to go look you
see if you have any broken images.
You can see if you made any
mistakes along the way as well.
So always go and look at your project, cuz
I have my button that I wanna take out,
but trim that we do not need anymore,
there it is.
I can delete that button from there,
and I can just go through to make sure
everything's loading in
all my images are there.
And at least just make sure your site's
looking half-decent at this stage and
at least all the content is there.
And by having those base styles already
in place, it should already look ok-ish.
Because at least we have that base
that setting up the stage for
everything else that
we're going to be doing.